_portfolio/2001-09-22-alices-adventures-in-new-media.md, before:

---
id: 569
title: 'Alice&#8217;s Adventures in New Media'
date: 2001-09-22T13:41:14+00:00
author: blair
layout: portfolio
guid: 'http://www.blairmacintyre.me/?post_type=portfolio&#038;p=569'
permalink: /project/alices-adventures-in-new-media/
wpzoom_slider:
  - 'a:0:{}'
wpzoom_portfolio_overview:
  - "Alice's Adventures is an AR re-imagining of Lewis Carroll's classic Alice in Wonderland "
wpzoom_portfolio_client:
  - 
wpzoom_portfolio_services:
  - 
wpzoom_post_template:
  - 
wpzoom_slideshow_url:
  - 
---
<div id="galleria-569">
  <a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/harelaugh1.jpg"><img title="harelaugh1" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/harelaugh1-91x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/hattersplashed1.jpg"><img title="hattersplashed1" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/hattersplashed1-91x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/UserSplash1.jpg"><img title="UserSplash" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/UserSplash1-62x55.jpg" /></a>
</div>

Alice’s Adventures in New Media is an Augmented Reality (AR) experience based on _A Mad Tea Party_, a chapter from Lewis Carroll’s book “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland”. The user assumes the role of Alice and sits at the tea party with three interactive characters: the Mad Hatter, Dormouse, and March Hare.Alice is an exploration of interactive story-telling in AR. By comparing the unique characteristics of AR with established media such as film and interactive CD-ROMs, the project explores the one approach to using AR as a storytelling medium. Innovations include the refashioning of conventions used in film and interactive CD-ROMs for the development of an AR narrative, and the use of simple procedural characters to create an immersive interactive experience.Alice was also the first prototype that demonstrated the feasibility of the Macromedia Director environment as an AR production tool.

References:

Moreno, Emmanuel, [Blair MacIntyre](http://ael.gatech.edu/lab/author/blair/), and [Jay Bolter](http://ael.gatech.edu/lab/author/jaybolter/). 2001. &#8220;Alice&#8217;s Adventure&#8217;s in New Media: An Exploration of Interactive Narratives in Augmented Reality.&#8221; Paper presented at _CAST &#8217;01_. 21-22 September 2001. Bonn, Germany. 149-152.

Commit message:

did a pass at putting content in the portfolio files
Not great content, but content

_portfolio/2001-09-22-alices-adventures-in-new-media.md, after:

---
id: 569
title: "Alice's Adventures in New Media"
date: 2001-09-22T13:41:14+00:00
author: blair
layout: portfolio
permalink: /project/alices-adventures-in-new-media/
subtitle: "An AR re-imagining of Lewis Carroll's classic Alice in Wonderland"
img: /assets/uploads/2013/09/UserSplash1.jpg
---

Alice’s Adventures in New Media is an Augmented Reality (AR) experience based on _A Mad Tea Party_, a chapter from Lewis Carroll’s book “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland”. The user assumes the role of Alice and sits at the tea party with three interactive characters: the Mad Hatter, Dormouse, and March Hare.Alice is an exploration of interactive story-telling in AR. By comparing the unique characteristics of AR with established media such as film and interactive CD-ROMs, the project explores the one approach to using AR as a storytelling medium. Innovations include the refashioning of conventions used in film and interactive CD-ROMs for the development of an AR narrative, and the use of simple procedural characters to create an immersive interactive experience.Alice was also the first prototype that demonstrated the feasibility of the Macromedia Director environment as an AR production tool.

References:

Moreno, Emmanuel, Blair MacIntyre, and Jay Bolter. 2001. "Alice's Adventure's in New Media: An Exploration of Interactive Narratives in Augmented Reality." Paper presented at _CAST'01_. 21-22 September 2001. Bonn, Germany. 149-152.
