_portfolio/2007-05-08-ar-in-oakland-cemetery.md, before:

---
id: 575
title: AR in Oakland Cemetery
date: 2007-05-08T14:27:42+00:00
author: blair
layout: portfolio
guid: 'http://www.blairmacintyre.me/?post_type=portfolio&#038;p=575'
permalink: /project/ar-in-oakland-cemetery/
wpzoom_slider:
  - 'a:0:{}'
wpzoom_portfolio_overview:
  - Oakland Cemetery has served as the site for a wide range of historic experiences in our Mixed Reality Experience Design class.
wpzoom_portfolio_client:
  - 
wpzoom_portfolio_services:
  - 
wpzoom_post_template:
  - 
wpzoom_slideshow_url:
  - 
---
<div id="galleria-575">
  <a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted13.jpg"><img title="pasted13" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted13-73x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted2.jpg"><img title="pasted2" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted2-73x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted5.jpg"><img title="pasted5" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted5-73x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted6.jpg"><img title="pasted6" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted6-41x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted7.jpg"><img title="pasted7" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted7-73x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted12.jpg"><img title="pasted12" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted12-73x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted13-2.jpg"><img title="pasted13-2" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted13-2-73x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted21.jpg"><img title="pasted21" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/pasted21-46x55.jpg" /></a><a href="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/plantationOwner2.jpg"><img title="plantationOwner2" alt="" src="http://blairmacintyre.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/plantationOwner2-72x55.jpg" /></a>
</div>

A popular project in our Mixed Reality Experience Design class is to have the students use Augmented Reality (AR) technology to introduce visitors to the history and architecture of <a>Oakland Cemetery</a>, Atlanta&#8217;s oldest cemetery.  Cemetery&#8217;s are a fascinating place to learn about the history of a city;  Oakland has residents from all major events that have happened in Atlanta and the United States, including soldiers, slaves, businessmen, politicians and famous authors and atheletes.  Depending on the experience, the student envision experiences where the user might wearing headphones or a head-worn display, and carrying a portable computer and tracking devices while walking among the graves.  They would see and listen to the stories and (imagined) voices of various historical figures. Students often imagine having visitors tailor the experience to suit their interests, or contribute their own thoughts and experiences to a growing database of historical documentation.

The Voices of Oakland prototype, created using [DART ](http://www.blairmacintyre.me/slideshow/dart/ "DART")(the Designer’s Augmented Reality Toolkit) and evaluated using the &#8220;Wizard of Oz&#8221; approach with volunteer participants, grew out of these class projects.

Commit message:

did a pass at putting content in the portfolio files
Not great content, but content

_portfolio/2007-05-08-ar-in-oakland-cemetery.md, after:

---
id: 575
title: AR in Oakland Cemetery
date: 2007-05-08T14:27:42+00:00
author: blair
layout: portfolio
permalink: /project/ar-in-oakland-cemetery/
subtitle: Letting the dead tell their stories
img: /assets/uploads/2013/10/pasted7-466x350.jpg
---
A popular project in our Mixed Reality Experience Design class was to have the students use Augmented Reality (AR) technology to introduce visitors to the history and architecture of <a>Oakland Cemetery</a>, Atlanta's oldest cemetery.  Cemetery's are a fascinating place to learn about the history of a city;  Oakland has residents from all major events that have happened in Atlanta and the United States, including soldiers, slaves, businessmen, politicians and famous authors and atheletes.  Depending on the experience, the student envision experiences where the user might wearing headphones or a head-worn display, and carrying a portable computer and tracking devices while walking among the graves.  They would see and listen to the stories and (imagined) voices of various historical figures. Students often imagine having visitors tailor the experience to suit their interests, or contribute their own thoughts and experiences to a growing database of historical documentation.

The Voices of Oakland prototype, created using [DART ](/project/dart-the-designers-ar-toolkit)(the Designer’s Augmented Reality Toolkit) and evaluated using the "Wizard of Oz" approach with volunteer participants, grew out of these class projects.  

{% youtube mHoe2NfTV7U %}
