---
title: Quick blog posts from iOS
date: 2017-05-02 13:45:51 -04:00
categories:
- personal
tags:
- Jekyll
- iOS
- mobile
layout: post
---

Getting blogging again. Found a great article on [posting to my Jekyll blog from iOS](https://www.thecave.com/2017/04/21/how-i-post-to-my-jekyll-site-using-my-iphone/) that works great!

From his post:

> My blog site, [thecave.com](http://thecave.com), is a static HTML site generated by Jekyll and hosted on Github Pages. I love that the site is static HTML as it means I can host the site virtually anywhere. But, unlike dynamic blog sites, like those powered by WordPress, I haven’t been able to publish new posts from my iPhone. And with the upcoming release of micro.blog, creating new micro-posts for thecave.com from my iPhone is something I want to do, but how? How can I update my Jekyll site, with its source code hosted on Github and custom plug-ins that can’t run on Github Pages, using my iPhone?<br>
> [...]<br>
> First, I need an app on my iPhone that lets me push changes to my site’s Github repository. In other words, I need a git client on iOS. I decided to use Working Copy. <br>
> [...]<br>
> Editorial has a built-in workflow engine, and while this app might not look as pretty as Byword, it is much more powerful, thanks to a built-in workflow engine, and suited to my needs. I bought Editorial right away and started playing with different workflows that already work with Working Copy. After some trial and error, I created two workflows. One lets me publish a post to thecave.com, and the other lets me publish a micro-post.

I was especially interested in the _micro-post_ workflow, as I had just set up a micro-blog over at [micro.blog/blair](http://micro.blog/blair)

