---
title: "Lego Pussyhats for Good" 
date: "2017-02-20T082540-0500" 
author: blair
layout: post
permalink: "/2017/02/20/lego-pussyhats-for-good/"
categories:
- personal
tags:
- lego
- pussyhat
- 3dprinting
---

{% marginfigure "pussyhat-model" 'assets/images/external/minifig-pussyhat-5.jpg' 'Lego Pussyhats!' %} 
Back on Feb 9th, just under two weeks ago, a friend of a friend posted a link on Facebook to an article on [Dangerous Minds](http://dangerousminds.net/comments/complete_your_lego_womens_march_with_pink_pussyhats)
about someone who created a 3D printable model for Lego Minifigs, of the knit Pussyhat's that were ubiquitous at the Woman's March.

{% marginfigure "pussyhat-comments" 'assets/images/facebook-pussyhat-comments.png' 'Begging for Pussyhats!' %} 
This, I think, was brilliant.  I was aghast that I hadn't thought of such a thing myself, and a growing group of my friends, knowing I was in possession of my very own 3D printer, "gently" urged me to make some for them.

And so it began.

The folks who created the model started with a hat that would fit over the sides of the minifig's head, covering the top nicely, as a hat would do.  The problem with this model, if you have a consumer-grade 3D printer, is that you either print it right-side up (which gives a nice smooth outer surface, but fills the inside with almost-impossible-to-remove support material, making it virtually impossible to have the hat fit on a minifig) or you print it upside down (which makes the inside nice and clean, fitting on a minifig with minor cleaning, but leaves the outside covered in support material).  After trying both, it became clear the easier task was to clean the support off the outside, which had the added benefit of giving the hat a rough, "knit" look (if such a thing can be said about anything make from PLA).  This approach took about 5-10 minutes per hat, with a small metal file, and (I will admit) was vaguly soothing to meditative to do ... not counting the pain inflicted on the fingers by holding small, rough plastic tightly and the occasional jabs and pokes from the files. But, how bad can it be to create a dozen or so?  I made them and she delivered them to a few friends and students of hers.

{% marginfigure "pussyhat-comments" 'assets/images/minifigs-v1.jpg' "First samples of our Lego Pussyhats, there's no turning back now!" %} 
What happened next makes me so very, very happy.  My wife posted a picture to facebook on Valentine's day, showing the results of my handywork, and the requests started to come in. This isn't suprising, I suppose, given how popular the hats in the original article were. But my wife had a clever idea (to which I nervously agreed): in the spirit of the Woman's March, she told folks that if they wanted one, they just needed to donate something to [Planned Parenthood]() and we'd send them one.  And by the end of the the week, we had {\bf raised over $3000 for Planned Parenthood, and had made over 70 hats}.


   